  ==Implementation notes. Incomplete 

  $ rails new croresrails2 -d postgresql [see log]
  Then in a new terminal window
  $ psql
  $ \c croresrails2_development
  You are now connected to database "croresrails2_development" as user "gscar". [this line is feedback]
  croresrails2_development-# create extension postgis
  CREATE EXTENSION
  croresrails2_development=#  [probably done with psql. Can look with pgadmin and see the extension]
  rails generate model address \
  address:string  city:string state:string "longitude:decimal{9,6}" "latitude:decimal{9,6}" extant:boolean current:string notes:string \
  --fixture false
  [Added defaults later, still need geometry]
  
  rails g scaffold Address address:string  city:string state:string "longitude:decimal{9,6}" "latitude:decimal{9,6}" extant:boolean current:string notes:string
  
  Now can see http://localhost:3000/addresses and enter data
  
  See lib/assets/import_addresses.rake for importing csv data
  
  See /other for some of the Rails tasks to create databases etc
  
  rails generate model person \
     name:string  Date_of_Birth:date Date_of_Entry:date DoE_Source:string Date_of_Citizenship:date notes:string \
     --fixture false
   
  rails g scaffold Person name:string  Date_of_Birth:date Date_of_Entry:date DoE_Source:string Date_of_Citizenship:date notes:string
  
  bin/rails generate controller welcome index

$ rails generate migration enable_postgis
Edit the migration (file given in messages), and write (really adding middle line):

class EnablePostgis < ActiveRecord::Migration
  def change
    enable_extension :postgis
  end
end

Adding geom column. Let's see if this will work when try to convert the lat lon. Do I need the bin?
$ bin/rails generate migration AddGeometryToAddresses geom:geometry [if htis works, just add this item in original migration]

Adding an Acknowledgements Table
$ rails generate scaffold acknowledgement name:string url:string subject:string comments:string

From pgAdmin [how do this in Rails command line. Actually this looks like any other migration. Just need to work on the formatting of what to add to the migration]
UPDATE addresses SET geom = ST_SetSRID(ST_MakePoint(longitude,latitude),4326);

QGIS asked if I wanted to add an index to addresses and I clicked yes. 2015.10.10

Added database layer in QGIS. Was able to see croresrails2, but now to display it.

Then added a PostGIS layer via the icon on the left that looked like pgAdmin icon. Found the geom item in the window that opened. The little dots show up on a map. I used Bing aerial as background. Need to use my overlays as background.
Can add croresrails2 database to the other QGIS projects I had created. Need to work on the Sanborn map overlay/underlay. done

Adding addresses via rake. Errors
 rake csv_model_import[other/addresses_import_using_rails_2015.10.11.csv,Address]
 
 Added views/addresses/coords.html.erb view to find and add coordinates to an address. Gropping in the dark. Put together from tutorial and edit view. But will need serious work.
 
<<<<<<< Local Changes
Adding coordinates with a Ruby script (other/Mapbox Coordinates for address.Link) for many of the addresses. Uses Mapbox to find coordinates and I manually enter them into the datbase via this app.

rails g migration CreateJoinTablePersonAddressYear person address year

rails g controller PersonAddressYear

Save for later, doesn't work with nil entriesio    <!-- <% @people.sort_by(&:name).each do |person| %>  Note sort by except doing by first name. Need to seperate names. Why did I do it this way? -->


rails g model PersonAddressYear  person address year
=======
Adding coordinates with a Ruby script (other/Mapbox Coordinates for address.Link) for many of the addresses. Uses Mapbox to find coordinates and I manually enter them into the datbase via this app.>>>>>>> External Changes
====
Why did I not have first and last name? There was a reason. But it prevents easy sorting.
